W-14027225 ext processing envoy filter gr (#386)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-external-processing.adoc

= External Processing Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: external processing, processing, flex gateway, gateway, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | External Processing

> >s|Summary | Sends the incoming HTTP requests or the outgoing HTTP responses requests to an external gRPC service for additional processing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>s|Summary | Sends the incoming HTTP requests or outgoing HTTP responses requests to an external gRPC service for additional processing
```

>s|Category | Transformation
>s|First Flex Gateway version available | v1.6.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
| 403 - IP is rejected
|===

== Summary

The External Processing policy sends the incoming HTTP request or outgoing HTTP response to an external gRPC service to modify the headers, trailers, body, or any combination of the three. You can also configure this policy to process either the request, response, or both.

> Additionally, the external processing service can request different parts of the HTTP request or response after the initial gRPC request has been sent by Flex Gateway to the external processing server. This enables you to send the minimum amount of data necessary. For example, Flex Gateway can initially send only the HTTP requests headers. Then, after some processing, the external processor can request the HTTP request body or trailers from Flex Gateway if necessary. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the external processing service can request different parts of the HTTP request or response after the initial gRPC request was sent by Flex Gateway to the external processing server. This enables you to send the minimum amount of data necessary. For example, Flex Gateway can initially send only the HTTP requests headers. Then, after some processing, the external processor can request the HTTP request body or trailers from Flex Gateway. 
```

> The parameters you set for sending the HTTP headers, trailers, and body only configure what is initially sent. The external processing service has access to all parts of the HTTP request or response regardless of what is configured. Configure the parameters to send all the information the processing service needs for every incoming HTTP request or response. For example, if the processing service needs the headers for every request but only needs the body for some of the requests depending on the information found in the header, only configure the parameters to send the headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameters you set for sending the HTTP headers, trailers, and body only configure what is initially sent. The external processing service has access to all parts of the HTTP request or response regardless of what is configured. Configure the parameters to send all of the information that the processing service needs for every incoming HTTP request or response. For example, if the processing service needs the headers for every request but only needs the body for some of the requests, depending on the information found in the header, only configure the parameters to send the headers.
```

> The External Processing policy is an extension of the External Processing filter native to Envoy. To learn more about the External Processing filter, see https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/ext_proc/v3/ext_proc.proto[External Processing Filter^]. Not all External Processing filter parameters are avialible for the External Processing policy. To find what parameters are configurable, see <<configuring-policy-parameters, Configuring Policy Parameters>>. 

Reviewer: I think that you can shorten the reference to: "To learn more, see..."

Author: I think I would prefer to keep the first sentence in, if that's ok.

Reviewer: Fine

> The External Processing policy is an extension of the External Processing filter native to Envoy. To learn more about the External Processing filter, see https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/ext_proc/v3/ext_proc.proto[External Processing Filter^]. Not all External Processing filter parameters are avialible for the External Processing policy. To find what parameters are configurable, see <<configuring-policy-parameters, Configuring Policy Parameters>>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The External Processing policy is an extension of the External Processing filter native to Envoy. To learn more about the External Processing filter, see https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/filters/http/ext_proc/v3/ext_proc.proto[External Processing Filter^]. Not all External Processing filter parameters are available for the External Processing policy. To find what parameters are configurable, see <<configuring-policy-parameters, Configuring Policy Parameters>>. 
```

> NOTE: If other policies modify the HTTP request or response, ensure you order the policies depending on if these modification should be present when the request is sent to the processing service. For more information about ordering policies, see xref:policies-reorder.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If other policies modify the HTTP request or response, ensure that you order the policies depending on if these modification should be present when the request is sent to the processing service. For more information about ordering policies, see xref:policies-reorder.adoc[].
```

Reviewer: Similar to a comment in the other PR - what does it mean to order policies depending on if modifications should be present? I know you have a more information reference, but it would be good to add more context here.

Author: So, you can have multiple policies that each modify an HTTP request.

You may have a policy that injects a Header X into the request. If you want Header X to be included in the request when it is sent to the processing service, you should order the header injection policy to come before the external processing policy. You could also not want it present, and then in this case it should come after or elsewhere.

I think the section as is is fine. It's not really our duty to tell the user how to order their policy, but more how they can order them which is explained in the link doc.

Reviewer: I would simplify the sentence, then, and say "If other policies modify the HTTP request or response, ensure that you order the policies accordingly."

== Configuring Policy Parameters

=== Flex Gateway Local Mode

In Local Mode, you apply the External Processing policy to your API instance via declarative configuration files. Refer to the following policy definition and table of parameters:

[source,yaml]
----
- policyRef:
    name: native-external-proc
  config: 
    uri: <string> // REQUIRED
    messageTimeout: <integer> // OPTIONAL
    requestHeaderMode: <string> // REQUIRED, default: "send"
    responseHeaderMode: <string> // REQUIRED, default: "send"
    requestBodyMode: <string> // REQUIRED, default: "none"
    responseBodyMode: <string> // REQUIRED, default: "none"
    requestTrailerMode: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: "send"
    responseTrailerMode: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: "send"
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===

|Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

| `uri`
| Required
| NA
| External processing server URI. For gRPC type servers, define the URI as `\h2://<ext.authz.com>:<port>`.

| `messageTimeout`
| Required
| `1000`

> | Message timeout to processing server expressed in milliseconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Message timeout for the processing server in milliseconds.
```

| `requestHeaderMode`
| Required
| `send`

> | Whether the HTTP requests headers are sent to the processing service . Supported values are `send` and `skip`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Whether the HTTP requests headers are sent to the processing service. Supported values are `send` and `skip`.
```

> | Whether the HTTP requests headers are sent to the processing service or not. Supported values are `send` and `skip`.

Reviewer: You don't need "or not."
Suggestion: Indicates whether the...
Ditto for other similar text.

| `responseHeaderMode`
| Required
| `send`
| Whether the HTTP response headers are sent to the processing service or not. Supported values are `send` and `skip`.

| `requestBodyMode`
| Required
| `none`

> | Mode the HTTP request body is sent in. Supported values are `none`, `streamed`, `buffered`, and `bufferedPartial`. Selecting `none` does not send the request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Mode that the HTTP request body is sent in. Supported values are `none`, `streamed`, `buffered`, and `bufferedPartial`. Selecting `none` does not send the request body.
```

| `responseBodyMode`
| Required
| `none`

> | Mode the HTTP response body is sent in. Supported values are `none`, `streamed`, `buffered`, and `bufferedPartial`. Selecting `none` does not send the request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Mode that the HTTP response body is sent in. Supported values are `none`, `streamed`, `buffered`, and `bufferedPartial`. Selecting `none` does not send the request body.
```

| `requestTrailerMode`
| Required
| `send`

> | Whether the HTTP requests trailer headers are sent to the processing service or not. Supported values are `send` and `skip`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Whether the HTTP requests' trailer headers are sent to the processing service or not. Supported values are `send` and `skip`.
```

| `responseTrailerMode`
| Required
| `send`
| Whether the HTTP response trailer headers are sent to the processing service or not. Supported values are `send` and `skip`.

|===

> NOTE: Leaving a required value blank configures the parameter as the default value. No value is set for optional values left blank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Leaving a required value blank configures the parameter with the default value. No value is set for optional values left blank.
```

==== Resource Configuration Example

> This configuration sends both the request headers, trailers, and the request body in a streamed manner to the external proccessing server. This configuration does not send any part of the response to to the external proccessing server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration streams the request headers, trailers, and body to the external processing server. This configuration does not send any part of the response to the external processing server.
```

[source,yaml]
----
- policyRef:
    name: native-external-proc
  config: 
    uri: h2://<ext.authz.com>:<port>
    messageTimeout: <integer> // OPTIONAL
    responseHeaderMode: skip
    requestBodyMode: streamed
    responseTrailerMode: skip
----

=== Flex Gateway Connected Mode

When you apply the External Processing policy to your API from the UI, configure the following parameters:

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
| Parameter | Description
|External processing server URI | External processing server URI. For gRPC type servers, define the URI as `\h2://<ext.authz.com>:<port>`.

> |Message timeout | Message timeout to processing server expressed in milliseconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Message timeout | Message timeout for the processing server in milliseconds.
```

|Request header processing mode | Whether the requests headers are sent to the processing service or not.
|Response header processing mode  | Whether the response headers are sent to the processing service or not.

> |Request body processing mode | Mode the request body is sent in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Request body processing mode | Mode that the request body is sent in.
```

> |Response body processing mode | Mode the response body is sent in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Response body processing mode | Mode that the response body is sent in.
```

|Request trailer processing mode | Whether the requests trailers are sent to the processing service or not.
|Response trailer processing mode | Whether the response trailers are sent to the processing service or not.
|===

== How This Policy Works

The following diagram demonstrates the order in which requests and responses flow when the External Processing policy is applied:

image:ext-processing-policy.png[80%,80%,align="center"]

. The client sends an HTTP request to Flex Gateway.

> . Flex Gateway sends the initial parts of the client HTTP request you configure to the external processing service. At this point, the external processing service may request additional parts of the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Flex Gateway sends the initial parts of the client HTTP request that you configure to the external processing service. At this point, the external processing service can request additional parts of the request.
```

. After Flex Gateway receives the modified HTTP request, Flex Gateway sends the HTTP request to the upstream API service.

> . Flex Gateway receives the HTTP response from the upstream API service and sends the initial parts of the HTTP response you configure to the external processing service. At this point, the external processing service may request additional parts of the HTTP response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Flex Gateway receives the HTTP response from the upstream API service and sends the initial parts of the HTTP response that you configure to the external processing service. At this point, the external processing service can request additional parts of the HTTP response.
```

> . Flex Gateway returns the HTTP modified response from the external processing service to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Flex Gateway returns the modified HTTP response from the external processing service to the client.
```
